# Genomics-Paper
Computational strategies to combat COVID-19: useful tools to accelerate SARS-CoV-2 and coronavirus research
Abstract : 
SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) is a novel virus of the family Coronaviridae. The virus causes the infectious disease COVID-19. The biology of coronaviruses has been studied for many years. However, bioinformatics tools designed explicitly for SARS-CoV-2 have only recently been developed as a rapid reaction to the need for fast detection, understanding and treatment of COVID-19. To control the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, it is of utmost importance to get insight into the evolution and pathogenesis of the virus. In this review, we cover bioinformatics workflows and tools for the routine detection of SARS-CoV-2 infection, the reliable analysis of sequencing data, the tracking of the COVID-19 pandemic and evaluation of containment measures, the study of coronavirus evolution, the discovery of potential drug targets and development of therapeutic strategies. For each tool, we brief describe its use case and how it advances research specifically for SARS-CoV-2. All tools are free to use and available online, either through web applications or public code repositories
Introduction : 
On 31 December 2019, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission reported several cases of pneumonia in Wuhan (China) to the World Health Organization. The cause of these cases was a previously unknown coronavirus, which can manifest itself in the disease named COVID-19. nearly 15 million cases were reported worldwide, with over 600 000 deaths. The group of Coronaviridae includes viruses with very long RNA genomes up to 33 000 nucleotides. Researchers around the world are investigating SARS-CoV-2 sequence evolution on genome and protein level, tracking the pandemic using phylodynamic and epidemiological models and examining potential drug targets. Laboratories are sharing SARS-CoV-2-related data with unprecedented speed. The natural first approach is to repurpose existing methods and resources. Simultaneously, the outbreak has had a huge impact on virus bioinformatics tools that have been developed recently and it is important to understand which tools are applicable to coronaviruses and which have been customized to address research questions related to SARS-CoV-2. In this review, we cover bioinformatics workflows and tools starting with the routine detection of SARSCoV-2 infection, the reliable analysis of sequencing data, the tracking of the COVID-19 pandemic.
